Adds Spire Integration Documentation (#1)
HewlettPackard/istio.io: content/en/docs/ops/integrations/spire/index.md

---

> title: Spire SDS Integration

Reviewer: replace with `SPIRE`, all uppercase, here and everywhere else

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
title: Istio CA integration with SPIRE 
```

Reviewer 3: > replace with `SPIRE`, all uppercase, here and everywhere else

I won't mark all the occurences, but please do replace Spire with SPIRE as @mchurichi said. I agree with the new title suggested by @maxlambrecht but please capitalize Integration. All regular headings should follow the capitalization scheme that Max L. used but the title is [different](https://istio.io/latest/docs/releases/contribute/style-guide/#use-title-case-for-the-value-of-the-title-field-of-the-front-matter).

Author: Understood, already replaced all occurrences and capitalized the title.

> linktitle: How integrate with Spire CA.

Reviewer: replace with `How to integrate with SPIRE CA.`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
linktitle: How integrate Istio with SPIRE through Envoy SDS API.
```

and workload attestation in order to securely issue SVIDs to workloads, and verify
the SVIDs of other workloads, based on a predefined set of conditions. In an Istio deployment, SPIRE can be
configured as a source of SVIDs for Istio workloads through integrating with [Envoy's SDS API](https://www.envoyproxy.io/docs/envoy/latest/configuration/security/secret).

## Install Spire

### Option 1: Quick start

Istio provides a basic sample installation to quickly get Spire up and running:

{{< text bash >}}
$ kubectl apply -f @samples/security/envoy-sds/spire/spire-quickstart.yaml
{{< /text >}}

This will deploy SPIRE into your cluster, along with two additional components: the [SPIFFE CSI Driver](https://github.com/spiffe/spiffe-csi) — used to share the Spire Agent's Unix Domain Socket with the other
pods throughout the node — and the [SPIRE Kubernetes Workload Registrar](https://github.com/spiffe/spire/tree/main/support/k8s/k8s-workload-registrar), a facilitator that performs automatic workload registration
within Kubernetes. See [Install Istio](#install-istio) to configure Istio and integrate with the SPIFFE CSI Driver.

{{< warning >}}

> Note that many configuration used here may not be fully apropriate for production. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that many configurations used here may not be fully appropriate for a production environment. 

```

Please see [Scaling SPIRE](https://spiffe.io/docs/latest/planning/scaling_spire/) for more information on configuring SPIRE for a production environment.
{{< /warning >}}

### Option 2: Customizable Spire install

> Reference the [SPIRE Installation guide](https://spiffe.io/docs/latest/try/getting-started-k8s/) 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See the [SPIRE's Quickstart for Kubernetes guide](https://spiffe.io/docs/latest/try/getting-started-k8s/) 
```

to get started deploying SPIRE into your Kubernetes environment. See [Integration Prerequisites](#integration-prerequisites)
for more information on configuring SPIRE to integrate with Istio deployments.

### CA Integration Prerequisites

There are a couple of necessary configuration requirements to successfully integrate Istio with Spire CA:

1. Access [Spire Agent reference](https://spiffe.io/docs/latest/deploying/spire_agent/#agent-configuration-file) and
   configure the Spire Agent socket path to match Envoy SDS path.

   {{< text >}}
   socket_path = "/run/secrets/workload-spiffe-uds/socket"
   {{< /text >}}

2. Share the Spire Agent socket with the pods within the node by leveraging the
   [SPIFFE CSI Driver](https://github.com/spiffe/spiffe-csi).

3. See [Install Istio](#install-istio) to configure Istio to integrate with the SPIFFE CSI Driver.

## Install Istio

[Download the latest Istio release](https://istio.io/latest/docs/setup/getting-started/#download).

> After deploying successfully Spire into your environment, install Istio with custom patches for istio-ingressgateways/egressgateways as well as the istio-proxy

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After successfully deploying SPIRE into your environment, install Istio with custom patches for istio-ingressgateways/egressgateways as well as the istio-proxy

```

to access the Spire Agent socket shared by the [SPIFFE CSI Driver](https://github.com/spiffe/spiffe-csi). Use
[Automatic sidecar injection](https://istio.io/latest/docs/setup/additional-setup/sidecar-injection/#automatic-sidecar-injection)

> to inject automatically the spire template below into new workloads pods.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to automatically inject the SPIRE template below into new workloads pods.

```

Reviewer 3: I agree with the suggestion from @mchurichi.

The actions in this section could be split into steps (1. 2. 3.) instead of as plain sentences, like:
1. Download Istio...
2. Deploy Istio... 
3. Apply patches to Istio...
4. Use automatic sidecar injection...

                 volumeMounts:
                 - name: workload-socket
                   mountPath: /run/secrets/workload-spiffe-uds
                   readOnly: true
               volumes:
                 - name: workload-socket
                   csi:
                     driver: "csi.spiffe.io"
     components:
       ingressGateways:
         - name: istio-ingressgateway
           enabled: true
           label:
             istio: ingressgateway
           k8s:
             overlays:
               - apiVersion: apps/v1
                 kind: Deployment
                 name: istio-ingressgateway
                 patches:
                   - path: spec.template.spec.volumes.[name:workload-socket]
                     value:
                       name: workload-socket
                       csi:
                         driver: "csi.spiffe.io"
                   - path: spec.template.spec.containers.[name:istio-proxy].volumeMounts.[name:workload-socket]
                     value:
                       name: workload-socket
                       mountPath: "/run/spire/sockets"
                       readOnly: true
   EOF
   {{< /text >}}

> This will share the spiffe-csi-driver with the Ingressgateway and the sidecars that are going

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This will share the spiffe-csi-driver with the Ingress Gateway and the sidecars that are going

```

to be automatically injected on workload pods, granting them access to the Spire Agent's UNIX Domain Socket.

## Registering Workloads

Registering workloads with SPIFFE IDs in the SPIRE Server.

> ### Option 1: Automatically

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Option 1: Automatic registration

```

Reviewer 3: Maybe "Automatic registration using the SPIRE workload registrar"

By deploying [SPIRE Kubernetes Workload Registrar](https://github.com/spiffe/spire/tree/main/support/k8s/k8s-workload-registrar)
along with Spire Server to register new entries automatically for each new pod that is created.

> ### Option 2: Manually

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Option 2: Manual registration

```

   {{< text bash >}}
   $ kubectl exec -n spire $SPIRE_SERVER_POD -- \
   /opt/spire/bin/spire-server entry create \
   -spiffeID spiffe://example.org/ns/istio-system/sa/istio-ingressgateway-service-account \
   -parentID spiffe://example.org/ns/spire/sa/spire-agent \
   -selector k8s:sa:istio-ingressgateway-service-account \
   -selector k8s:ns:istio-system \
   -selector k8s:pod-uid:$INGRESS_POD_UID \
   -dns $INGRESS_POD \
   -dns istio-ingressgateway.istio-system.svc \
   -socketPath /run/spire/sockets/server.sock
   {{< /text >}}

   {{< text >}}
   Entry ID         : 6f2fe370-5261-4361-ac36-10aae8d91ff7
   SPIFFE ID        : spiffe://example.org/ns/istio-system/sa/istio-ingressgateway-service-account
   Parent ID        : spiffe://example.org/ns/spire/sa/spire-agent
   Revision         : 0
   TTL              : default
   Selector         : k8s:ns:istio-system
   Selector         : k8s:pod-uid:63c2bbf5-a8b1-4b1f-ad64-f62ad2a69807
   Selector         : k8s:sa:istio-ingressgateway-service-account
   DNS name         : istio-ingressgateway.istio-system.svc
   DNS name         : istio-ingressgateway-c48554dd6-cff5z
   {{</ text >}}

{{< warning >}}

> SpiffeIDs for workloads must contain the Istio SPIFFE ID pattern spiffe://<trust.domain>/ns/<namespace>/sa/<service-account>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
SPIFFE IDs for workloads must follow the Istio SPIFFE ID pattern: spiffe://<trust.domain>/ns/<namespace>/sa/<service-account>

```

{{< /warning >}}

> Consult [Registering workloads](https://spiffe.io/docs/latest/deploying/registering/) on how
> to create new entries for workloads and attest a set of multiples selectors for securing services.

Reviewer: not sure if this is exactly what you mean
```suggestion
See the [SPIRE help on Registering workloads](https://spiffe.io/docs/latest/deploying/registering/) to learn how to create new entries for workloads and get them attested using multiple selectors to strengthen attestation criteria.
```

## Verifying Entries

Confirm that identities were created for the workloads.
{{< text bash >}}
$ kubectl exec -i -t $SPIRE_SERVER_POD -n spire -c spire-server -- /bin/sh -c "bin/spire-server entry show -socketPath /run/spire/sockets/server.sock"
{{< /text >}}

   {{< text >}}
   Found 1 entry
   Entry ID         : c8dfccdc-9762-4762-80d3-5434e5388ae7
   SPIFFE ID        : spiffe://example.org/ns/istio-system/sa/istio-ingressgateway-service-account
   Parent ID        : spiffe://example.org/ns/spire/sa/spire-agent
   Revision         : 0
   TTL              : default
   Selector         : k8s:ns:istio-system
   Selector         : k8s:pod-uid:88b71387-4641-4d9c-9a89-989c88f7509d
   Selector         : k8s:sa:istio-ingressgateway-service-account
   DNS name         : istio-ingressgateway-c48554dd6-cff5z
   {{< /text >}}

## Spire Federation

> Istio uses different Envoy validation contexts for workload identities and bundles.

Reviewer: is "validation contexts" a term used throughout Istio docs? if not, could you link the term to its corresponding section in Envoy docs?

Reviewer 2: I think that phrase can be removed, it doesn't make much sense here.

Reviewer 3: For what it's worth, the SPIRE [doc about Envoy](https://spiffe.io/docs/latest/microservices/envoy/) does use the term "validation contexts".

To enable Spire Federation:

1. Consult [Spire Agent SDS configuration](https://github.com/spiffe/spire/blob/main/doc/spire_agent.md#sds-configuration) and set the following 
SDS configuration values for your Spire Agent configuration file.

| Configuration              | Description                                                                                      | Validation Context |
| -------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |--------------------|
| `default_svid_name`        | The TLS Certificate resource name to use for the default X509-SVID with Envoy SDS                | default            |
| `default_bundle_name`      | The Validation Context resource name to use for the default X.509 bundle with Envoy SDS          | null               |
| `default_all_bundles_name` | The Validation Context resource name to use for all bundles (including federated) with Envoy SDS | ROOTCA             |

This will allow Envoy to get federated bundles from Spire.

> 2. Adds the federates with podAnnotation from spiffe.io, with the trust domain you want to federate, for your workload deployment:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. In your workload deployment, add the pod annotation `spiffe.io/federatesWith`, specifying the trust domain you want the pod federated with:

```

> ---

Reviewer 3: As part of this project, someone should review the existing SPIRE doc about [Envoy integration](https://spiffe.io/docs/latest/microservices/envoy/) to see if it needs to change.

Author: @sanderson042 I took a look at the document and it is still up to date. Don't need to worry about that.

Author: @sanderson042 I took a look at the document and it is still up to date. Don't need to worry about that.

Reviewer 3: Thanks for checking the other doc. But I was thinking that after the Mithril PR is merged, it still might be useful to add some info to that SPIRE page about the new capabilities that Mithril provides. Or maybe another SPIRE page would be more suitable.

title: Spire SDS Integration
linktitle: How integrate with Spire CA.

> description: Describes how to configure Istio to integrate with Spire CA via Secret Discovery Service.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
description: Describes how to configure Istio to integrate with SPIRE to get cryptographic identities through the Envoy SDS API.
```

weight: 40
keywords: [kubernetes,spiffe,spire]
aliases:
owner: istio/wg-networking-maintainers
test: no
---

> [Spire](/docs/ops/integrations/spire/)

Reviewer 3: I looked at the index.md source of the other applications in the Istio integrations section and didn't see the navigation breadcrumb/hierarchy link inserted manually. I think Hugo or something else in the deploy process inserts that, so you can delete it here.

Author: Thats true, I will remove it. Thanks!

> [SPIRE](https://spiffe.io/docs/latest/spire-about/spire-concepts/) is a production-ready implementation of the SPIFFE APIs that performs node
> and workload attestation in order to securely issue SVIDs to workloads, and verify
> the SVIDs of other workloads, based on a predefined set of conditions. In an Istio deployment, SPIRE can be
> configured as a source of SVIDs for Istio workloads through integrating with [Envoy's SDS API](https://www.envoyproxy.io/docs/envoy/latest/configuration/security/secret).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[SPIRE](https://spiffe.io/docs/latest/spire-about/spire-concepts/) is a production-ready implementation of the SPIFFE specification that performs node and workload attestation in order to securely issue cryptographic identities to workloads running in heterogeneous environments.  
In an Istio deployment, SPIRE can be configured as a source of cryptographic identities for Istio workloads through the integration with [Envoy's SDS API](https://www.envoyproxy.io/docs/envoy/latest/configuration/security/secret).
```

Reviewer 2: IMO what is missing in this introduction is to explain that istio now detects a socket in a defined path, and that path is the point of integration between SPIRE (and any other CA that exposes a SDS API) and Istio.

Reviewer 2: `SVID` is not a common term in Istio, I'd suggest that we use `cryptographic identities` for clarity's sake.

Reviewer 3: I agree with these suggestions from @maxlambrecht.

Author: Great! I will add an explanation about the socket detection behavior and use cryptographic identities instead

## Install Spire

### Option 1: Quick start

Istio provides a basic sample installation to quickly get Spire up and running:

{{< text bash >}}
$ kubectl apply -f @samples/security/envoy-sds/spire/spire-quickstart.yaml
{{< /text >}}

This will deploy SPIRE into your cluster, along with two additional components: the [SPIFFE CSI Driver](https://github.com/spiffe/spiffe-csi) — used to share the Spire Agent's Unix Domain Socket with the other
pods throughout the node — and the [SPIRE Kubernetes Workload Registrar](https://github.com/spiffe/spire/tree/main/support/k8s/k8s-workload-registrar), a facilitator that performs automatic workload registration
within Kubernetes. See [Install Istio](#install-istio) to configure Istio and integrate with the SPIFFE CSI Driver.

{{< warning >}}
Note that many configurations used here may not be fully appropriate for a production environment. 

Please see [Scaling SPIRE](https://spiffe.io/docs/latest/planning/scaling_spire/) for more information on configuring SPIRE for a production environment.
{{< /warning >}}

> ### Option 2: Customizable Spire install

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### Option 2: Custom SPIRE installation
```

See the [SPIRE's Quickstart for Kubernetes guide](https://spiffe.io/docs/latest/try/getting-started-k8s/) 
to get started deploying SPIRE into your Kubernetes environment. See [Integration Prerequisites](#integration-prerequisites)
for more information on configuring SPIRE to integrate with Istio deployments.

> ### CA Integration Prerequisites

Reviewer 3: Does this section belong after "Install SPIRE" or before? Usually prerequisite info goes near the beginning but there could be a good reason you put it here.

I'm not clear if this section is relevant for both options above (quickstart and custom) or just the second option. Based on the section level, it's both. But if it's for just the second option (custom) as the second sentence in that paragraph seems to imply, then the heading level should be 3 (Markdown: ###).

An alternate title would be "Configure SPIRE". This would be similar to some other docs in /integrations, which use "Configuration" by itself. If this section applies just to option 2, then a better title would be "Configure custom SPIRE installations".

Author: It is relevant to the second option only. I've applied the necessary changes.

> There are a couple of necessary configuration requirements to successfully integrate Istio with Spire CA:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
These configuration requirements are necessary to successfully integrate Istio with SPIRE:
```

1. Access [Spire Agent reference](https://spiffe.io/docs/latest/deploying/spire_agent/#agent-configuration-file) and

>    configure the Spire Agent socket path to match Envoy SDS path.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Using the [SPIRE Agent reference page](https://spiffe.io/docs/latest/deploying/spire_agent/#agent-configuration-file) as a guide, configure the Spire Agent socket path to match the Envoy SDS path in your environment. By default, this setting is in the SPIRE `agent.conf` file.
```

   {{< text >}}

>    socket_path = "/run/secrets/workload-spiffe-uds/socket"

Reviewer 3: Is this path an example or will this path be the same for all users?
- If an example, please add "For example:" on a line before it.
- If it's not an example, don't add "For example:" and please omit "in your environment" from my previous suggestion.

   {{< /text >}}

2. Share the Spire Agent socket with the pods within the node by leveraging the

>    [SPIFFE CSI Driver](https://github.com/spiffe/spiffe-csi).

Reviewer 3: I wonder if we can help the user by making this more specific?  If we can, for example, give a command (kubectl?) that shows how to do this, it would help. But if there's too many variables to do that, I understand.  In that case, maybe just change "leveraging" to "deploying"?

> 3. See [Install Istio](#install-istio) to configure Istio to integrate with the SPIFFE CSI Driver.

Reviewer 3: I think this paragraph could be a normal paragraph instead of number 3 since it's more of a transition to the next section, but I don't feel strongly about it.

         templates:
           spire: |
             spec:
               containers:
               - name: istio-proxy
                 volumeMounts:
                 - name: workload-socket
                   mountPath: /run/secrets/workload-spiffe-uds
                   readOnly: true
               volumes:
                 - name: workload-socket
                   csi:
                     driver: "csi.spiffe.io"
     components:
       ingressGateways:
         - name: istio-ingressgateway
           enabled: true
           label:
             istio: ingressgateway
           k8s:
             overlays:
               - apiVersion: apps/v1
                 kind: Deployment
                 name: istio-ingressgateway
                 patches:
                   - path: spec.template.spec.volumes.[name:workload-socket]
                     value:
                       name: workload-socket
                       csi:
                         driver: "csi.spiffe.io"
                   - path: spec.template.spec.containers.[name:istio-proxy].volumeMounts.[name:workload-socket]
                     value:
                       name: workload-socket

>                        mountPath: "/run/spire/sockets"

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
                       mountPath: "/run/secrets/workload-spiffe-uds"

```

                       readOnly: true
   EOF
   {{< /text >}}

This will share the spiffe-csi-driver with the Ingressgateway and the sidecars that are going

> to be automatically injected on workload pods, granting them access to the Spire Agent's UNIX Domain Socket.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
to be automatically injected on workload pods, granting them access to the SPIRE Agent's UNIX domain socket.
```
I know UDS is an abbreviation for UNIX domain socket, but a Google search seems to indicate no capitalization is needed when it's written in full.

Author: Awesome, good to know. I will commit the suggestion.

## Registering Workloads

> Registering workloads with SPIFFE IDs in the SPIRE Server.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Registering SPIRE workloads

This section describes the options available for registering workloads with SPIFFE IDs in the SPIRE Server.
```

### Option 1: Automatically

By deploying [SPIRE Kubernetes Workload Registrar](https://github.com/spiffe/spire/tree/main/support/k8s/k8s-workload-registrar)

> along with Spire Server to register new entries automatically for each new pod that is created.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Deploying the [SPIRE workload registrar](https://github.com/spiffe/spire/tree/main/support/k8s/k8s-workload-registrar)
along with the SPIRE Server enables the SPIRE Server to automatically register new entries for each new pod that is created.

```

### Option 2: Manual registration

Spire Server is able to verify a group of values to improve workload attestation security
robustness.

1. To generate an entry for an ingress-gateway with a set of selectors for example, get the

>    pod name and pod-uid:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. To generate an entry for an ingress-gateway with a set of selectors such as the
   pod name and pod-uid:

```

{{< text bash >}}
$ INGRESS_POD=$(kubectl get pod -l istio=ingressgateway -n istio-system -o jsonpath="{.items[0].metadata.name}")
$ INGRESS_POD_UID=$(kubectl get pods -n istio-system $INGRESS_POD -o jsonpath='{.metadata.uid}')
{{< /text >}}

2. Get the spire-server pod:

{{< text bash >}}
$ SPIRE_SERVER_POD=$(kubectl get pod -l app=spire-server -n spire -o jsonpath="{.items[0].metadata.name}")
{{< /text >}}

> 3. Attest the Spire Agent running on the node

Reviewer 3: Missing colon at the end
:

   {{< text bash >}}
   $ kubectl exec -n spire $SPIRE_SERVER_POD -- \
   /opt/spire/bin/spire-server entry create \
   -spiffeID spiffe://example.org/ns/spire/sa/spire-agent \
   -selector k8s_psat:cluster:demo-cluster \
   -selector k8s_psat:agent_ns:spire \
   -selector k8s_psat:agent_sa:spire-agent \
   -node -socketPath /run/spire/sockets/server.sock
   {{< /text >}}
   

>    {{< text >}}

Reviewer 3: I _think_ you don't have to close the code block to show the output, based [on this](https://istio.io/latest/docs/releases/contribute/code-blocks/).

   Entry ID         : d38c88d0-7d7a-4957-933c-361a0a3b039c
   SPIFFE ID        : spiffe://example.org/ns/spire/sa/spire-agent
   Parent ID        : spiffe://example.org/spire/server
   Revision         : 0
   TTL              : default
   Selector         : k8s_psat:agent_ns:spire
   Selector         : k8s_psat:agent_sa:spire-agent
   Selector         : k8s_psat:cluster:demo-cluster
   {{</ text >}}

> 4. and then register an entry for the pod:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
4. Finally, register an entry for the pod:

```

   -selector k8s:pod-uid:$INGRESS_POD_UID \
   -dns $INGRESS_POD \
   -dns istio-ingressgateway.istio-system.svc \
   -socketPath /run/spire/sockets/server.sock
   {{< /text >}}

   {{< text >}}
   Entry ID         : 6f2fe370-5261-4361-ac36-10aae8d91ff7
   SPIFFE ID        : spiffe://example.org/ns/istio-system/sa/istio-ingressgateway-service-account
   Parent ID        : spiffe://example.org/ns/spire/sa/spire-agent
   Revision         : 0
   TTL              : default
   Selector         : k8s:ns:istio-system
   Selector         : k8s:pod-uid:63c2bbf5-a8b1-4b1f-ad64-f62ad2a69807
   Selector         : k8s:sa:istio-ingressgateway-service-account
   DNS name         : istio-ingressgateway.istio-system.svc
   DNS name         : istio-ingressgateway-c48554dd6-cff5z
   {{</ text >}}

{{< warning >}}
SPIFFE IDs for workloads must follow the Istio SPIFFE ID pattern: spiffe://<trust.domain>/ns/<namespace>/sa/<service-account>

{{< /warning >}}

See the [SPIRE help on Registering workloads](https://spiffe.io/docs/latest/deploying/registering/) to learn how to create new entries for workloads and get them attested using multiple selectors to strengthen attestation criteria.

> ## Verifying Entries

Reviewer 3: This is this for both automatic and manual registration options, right? If so then no change to the level is needed. But here's a wording suggestion:

```suggestion
## Verifying that identities were created for workloads

```

> Confirm that identities were created for the workloads.

Reviewer 3: Could you clarify to the user what we're doing here? Does this confirm that the whole integration is working or just that the registration for the Ingress Gateway is working correctly?

{{< text bash >}}
$ kubectl exec -i -t $SPIRE_SERVER_POD -n spire -c spire-server -- /bin/sh -c "bin/spire-server entry show -socketPath /run/spire/sockets/server.sock"
{{< /text >}}

   {{< text >}}
   Found 1 entry
   Entry ID         : c8dfccdc-9762-4762-80d3-5434e5388ae7
   SPIFFE ID        : spiffe://example.org/ns/istio-system/sa/istio-ingressgateway-service-account
   Parent ID        : spiffe://example.org/ns/spire/sa/spire-agent
   Revision         : 0
   TTL              : default
   Selector         : k8s:ns:istio-system
   Selector         : k8s:pod-uid:88b71387-4641-4d9c-9a89-989c88f7509d
   Selector         : k8s:sa:istio-ingressgateway-service-account
   DNS name         : istio-ingressgateway-c48554dd6-cff5z
   {{< /text >}}

## Spire Federation

> 

Reviewer 3: Could we add a sentence or two about what SPIRE federation is?

SDS configuration values for your Spire Agent configuration file.

| Configuration              | Description                                                                                      | Validation Context |
| -------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |--------------------|
| `default_svid_name`        | The TLS Certificate resource name to use for the default X509-SVID with Envoy SDS                | default            |
| `default_bundle_name`      | The Validation Context resource name to use for the default X.509 bundle with Envoy SDS          | null               |
| `default_all_bundles_name` | The Validation Context resource name to use for all bundles (including federated) with Envoy SDS | ROOTCA             |

This will allow Envoy to get federated bundles from Spire.

2. In your workload deployment, add the pod annotation `spiffe.io/federatesWith`, specifying the trust domain you want the pod federated with:

   {{< text  >}}
   podAnnotations:
     spiffe.io/federatesWith: "domain.test"
   {{< /text >}}

## Cleanup Spire

> 

Reviewer 3: Could we clarify that this is for cleaning up the quick start deployment of SPIRE, the custom SPIRE installation, or both? For example, if it's just for the quick start, change the "Remove created..." line to:

If you installed SPIRE using the quick start SPIRE deployment provided by Istio, use the following commands to remove those Kubernetes resources:

Author: Great suggestion, the intent of this section was to cleanup the quick start. Now it is more clear

## Install SPIRE

### Option 1: Quick start

Istio provides a basic sample installation to quickly get SPIRE up and running:

{{< text bash >}}
$ kubectl apply -f @samples/security/spire/spire-quickstart.yaml
{{< /text >}}

This will deploy SPIRE into your cluster, along with two additional components: the [SPIFFE CSI Driver](https://github.com/spiffe/spiffe-csi) — used to share the SPIRE Agent's UNIX domain socket with the other
pods throughout the node — and the [SPIRE Kubernetes Workload Registrar](https://github.com/spiffe/spire/tree/main/support/k8s/k8s-workload-registrar), a facilitator that performs automatic workload registration
within Kubernetes. See [Install Istio](#install-istio) to configure Istio and integrate with the SPIFFE CSI Driver.

### Option 2: Configure a custom SPIRE installation

See the [SPIRE's Quickstart for Kubernetes guide](https://spiffe.io/docs/latest/try/getting-started-k8s/) 
to get started deploying SPIRE into your Kubernetes environment. See [SPIRE CA Integration Prerequisites](#spire-ca-integration-prerequisites)
for more information on configuring SPIRE to integrate with Istio deployments.

#### SPIRE CA Integration Prerequisites

> These configuration requirements are necessary to successfully integrate Istio with SPIRE:

Reviewer 4: I'd change to active voice here, following their guidelines
```suggestion
To integrate your SPIRE deployment with Istio, configure SPIRE:
```

1. Access [SPIRE Agent reference](https://spiffe.io/docs/latest/deploying/spire_agent/#agent-configuration-file) and
   configure the SPIRE Agent socket path to match the Envoy SDS defined socket path.

{{< text plain >}}
socket_path = "/run/secrets/workload-spiffe-uds/socket"
{{< /text >}}

2. Share the SPIRE Agent socket with the pods within the node by deploying the
   [SPIFFE CSI Driver](https://github.com/spiffe/spiffe-csi).

3. See [Install Istio](#install-istio) to configure Istio to integrate with the SPIFFE CSI Driver.

## Install Istio

> 

Reviewer 4: I know we're saying this right below this line, but it may be worth a warning here, saying that SPIRE must be installed prior to anything else. I think this (having Istio installed first) is a pretty expected setup for regular users, as majority of other integrations do work like that, so it could help to highlight it.

Author: Something like that?

```
{{< warning >}}
Note that you must deploy SPIRE before installing Istio into your environment so that Istio can detect it as a CA. 
{{< /warning >}}
```

1. [Download the latest Istio release](https://istio.io/latest/docs/setup/getting-started/#download). 

> 2. After successfully [deploying SPIRE](#install-spire) into your environment, install Istio with custom patches for istio-ingressgateways/egressgateways as well as the istio-proxy.

Reviewer 4: I think using "successfully" and similar might be flagged as unecessary (same category as "please", for instance) but I'm not sure

Author: I am just emphasizing that SPIRE should be deployed and at Ready state before continuing to Istio installation

Reviewer 4: Right, that makes sense. In that case, we could say something like "After deploying SPIRE and verifying that all deployments are in `Ready` state..."

Reviewer 3: I'm in favor of this more specific sentence from @jufantozzi.

Author: Yes, I agree with the new sentence.

                mountPath: /run/secrets/workload-spiffe-uds
                readOnly: true
             volumes:
               - name: workload-socket
                 csi:
                   driver: "csi.spiffe.io"
  components:
    ingressGateways:
      - name: istio-ingressgateway
        enabled: true
        label:
          istio: ingressgateway
        k8s:
          overlays:
            - apiVersion: apps/v1
              kind: Deployment
              name: istio-ingressgateway
              patches:
                - path: spec.template.spec.volumes.[name:workload-socket]
                  value:
                    name: workload-socket
                    csi:
                      driver: "csi.spiffe.io"
                - path: spec.template.spec.containers.[name:istio-proxy].volumeMounts.[name:workload-socket]
                  value:
                    name: workload-socket
                    mountPath: "/run/secrets/workload-spiffe-uds"
                    readOnly: true
EOF
{{< /text >}}

3. Use [Automatic sidecar injection](https://istio.io/latest/docs/setup/additional-setup/sidecar-injection/#automatic-sidecar-injection)

> to automatically inject the `spire` template in the configuration above into new workloads pods.

Reviewer 4: Aren't we suppose to mention both ways of injection? I've seen this across other examples;

I think this is a good place to mention the requirement on the injection template feature:
```suggestion
to automatically inject the `spire` template in the configuration above into new workloads pods that use the [proper notation for it](https://istio.io/latest/docs/setup/additional-setup/sidecar-injection/#custom-templates-experimental).
```

{{< text bash >}}
$ kubectl get pods -n istio-system
NAME                                    READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
istio-ingressgateway-5b45864fd4-lgrxs   0/1     Running   0          17s
istiod-989f54d9c-sg7sn                  1/1     Running   0          23s
{{< /text >}}

Data plane containers will only reach the `Ready` if a corresponding registration entry is created for them on the SPIRE Server. Then,
Envoy will be able to fetch cryptographic identities from SPIRE.
See [Register workloads](#register-workloads) to register entries for services in your mesh.

## Register workloads

This section describes the options available for registering workloads in SPIRE Server.

### Option 1: Automatic registration using the SPIRE workload registrar

By deploying [SPIRE Kubernetes Workload Registrar](https://github.com/spiffe/spire/tree/main/support/k8s/k8s-workload-registrar)
along with SPIRE Server, new entries are automatically registered for each new pod that is created.

See [Verifying that identities were created for workloads](#verifying-that-identities-were-created-for-workloads) 
to check issued identities.

### Option 2: Manual Registration

> SPIRE Server is able to verify a group of values to improve workload attestation security robustness.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
SPIRE Server is able to verify a group of selector values to improve workload attestation security robustness.
```

1. To generate an entry for an Ingress Gateway with a set of selectors such as the
   pod name and pod UID:

{{< text bash >}}
$ INGRESS_POD=$(kubectl get pod -l istio=ingressgateway -n istio-system -o jsonpath="{.items[0].metadata.name}")
$ INGRESS_POD_UID=$(kubectl get pods -n istio-system $INGRESS_POD -o jsonpath='{.metadata.uid}')
{{< /text >}}

> 2. Get the spire-server pod:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
2. Store the value for the spire-server pod:
```

{{</ text >}}

4. Register an entry for the istio-ingressgateway pod:

{{< text bash >}}
$ kubectl exec -n spire $SPIRE_SERVER_POD -- \
/opt/spire/bin/spire-server entry create \
-spiffeID spiffe://example.org/ns/istio-system/sa/istio-ingressgateway-service-account \
-parentID spiffe://example.org/ns/spire/sa/spire-agent \
-selector k8s:sa:istio-ingressgateway-service-account \
-selector k8s:ns:istio-system \
-selector k8s:pod-uid:$INGRESS_POD_UID \
-dns $INGRESS_POD \
-dns istio-ingressgateway.istio-system.svc \
-socketPath /run/spire/sockets/server.sock

Entry ID         : 6f2fe370-5261-4361-ac36-10aae8d91ff7
SPIFFE ID        : spiffe://example.org/ns/istio-system/sa/istio-ingressgateway-service-account
Parent ID        : spiffe://example.org/ns/spire/sa/spire-agent
Revision         : 0
TTL              : default
Selector         : k8s:ns:istio-system
Selector         : k8s:pod-uid:63c2bbf5-a8b1-4b1f-ad64-f62ad2a69807
Selector         : k8s:sa:istio-ingressgateway-service-account
DNS name         : istio-ingressgateway.istio-system.svc
DNS name         : istio-ingressgateway-c48554dd6-cff5z
{{</ text >}}

5. Deploy an example workload:

{{< text bash >}}

> $ istioctl kube-inject --filename @samples/security/spire/sleep-spire.yaml | kubectl apply -f -

Reviewer 4: I think here we should provide the whole file like we're doing with istio-config. The next paragraph could probably be rephrased to just emphasize the key deployment points

Author: I think it would be too long for the doc page

Reviewer 4: But if we don't provide it, we're assuming that the user knows how to perform some not-clear steps in order to follow our guide. I disagree that the page could get "too long", there are many other pages that go way beyond that, like [this one](https://github.com/HewlettPackard/istio.io/blob/master/content/en/docs/concepts/traffic-management/index.md). This is currently the only place where the user can recur to deploy our integration, I really think we should be as clear as possible when providing these instructions.

Author: I will add a snippet showcasing both options of inserting the required configuration to a workload.

aliases:
owner: istio/wg-networking-maintainers
test: no
---

[SPIRE](https://spiffe.io/docs/latest/spire-about/spire-concepts/) is a production-ready implementation of the SPIFFE specification that performs node and workload attestation in order to securely issue cryptographic identities to workloads running in heterogeneous environments.  
SPIRE can be configured as a source of cryptographic identities for Istio workloads through an integration with [Envoy's SDS API](https://www.envoyproxy.io/docs/envoy/latest/configuration/security/secret).
Istio can detect the existence of a UNIX domain socket that implements the Envoy SDS API on a defined socket path, allowing Envoy to communicate and fetch identities directly from it.

This integration with SPIRE provides flexible attestation options not available with the default Istio identity management while harnessing Istio's powerful service management.
For example, SPIRE's plugin architecture enables diverse workload attestation options beyond the Kubernetes namespace and service account attestation offered by Istio.
SPIRE's node attestation extends attestation to the physical or virtual hardware on which workloads run.

> ## Install SPIRE

Reviewer 3: I'd like to add one more brief paragraph before "Install SPIRE" . The new proposed paragraph refers to the README.md doc written by @jufantozzi . I think it's good to have each doc (README.md and index.md) contain a link to the other doc.

For a quick demo of how this SPIRE integration with Istio works, see [Integrating SPIRE as a CA through Envoy's SDS API](FIXME-REAL-URL-TO-README.MD).

Author: Agreed, I believe it would be useful to the user 👍🏻

Reviewer 4: +1 here

                mountPath: /run/secrets/workload-spiffe-uds
                readOnly: true
             volumes:
               - name: workload-socket
                 csi:
                   driver: "csi.spiffe.io"
  components:
    ingressGateways:
      - name: istio-ingressgateway
        enabled: true
        label:
          istio: ingressgateway
        k8s:
          overlays:
            - apiVersion: apps/v1
              kind: Deployment
              name: istio-ingressgateway
              patches:
                - path: spec.template.spec.volumes.[name:workload-socket]
                  value:
                    name: workload-socket
                    csi:
                      driver: "csi.spiffe.io"
                - path: spec.template.spec.containers.[name:istio-proxy].volumeMounts.[name:workload-socket]
                  value:
                    name: workload-socket
                    mountPath: "/run/secrets/workload-spiffe-uds"
                    readOnly: true
EOF
{{< /text >}}

3. Use [Automatic sidecar injection](https://istio.io/latest/docs/setup/additional-setup/sidecar-injection/#automatic-sidecar-injection)

> to automatically inject the `spire` template in the configuration above into new workloads pods, or add the pod annotation to your deployment spec:

Reviewer 4: Any reason to not provide the link for this feature?

Author: What feature? The link for the `Automatic sidecar injection` is there

Reviewer 4: I've mentioned it [here](https://github.com/HewlettPackard/istio.io/pull/1#discussion_r826143452).

Author: Sorry about that, I must have resolved by mistake

---
title: Istio CA Integration with SPIRE 

> linktitle: How integrate Istio with SPIRE through Envoy SDS API.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
linktitle: How to integrate Istio with SPIRE through Envoy SDS API.

```

> description: Describes how to configure Istio to integrate with SPIRE to get cryptographic identities through the Envoy SDS API.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
description: Describes how to configure Istio to integrate with SPIRE to get cryptographic identities through Envoy's SDS API.
```

weight: 40
keywords: [kubernetes,spiffe,spire]
aliases:
owner: istio/wg-networking-maintainers
test: no
---

[SPIRE](https://spiffe.io/docs/latest/spire-about/spire-concepts/) is a production-ready implementation of the SPIFFE specification that performs node and workload attestation in order to securely issue cryptographic identities to workloads running in heterogeneous environments.  
In an Istio deployment, SPIRE can be configured as a source of cryptographic identities for Istio workloads through the integration with [Envoy's SDS API](https://www.envoyproxy.io/docs/envoy/latest/configuration/security/secret).

> Istio can detect the existence of a UNIX domain socket that implements the Envoy SDS API on a well known path, allowing Envoy to communicate and 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Istio can detect the existence of a UNIX domain socket (UDS) that implements the Envoy SDS API on a defined socket path, allowing Envoy to communicate and 
```
I think using "defined", "pre-defined" or even "fixed" instead of "well known" makes it more clear that it is a defined/fixed path. 
Also, I guess we can save some words by shortening UNIX domain socket to UDS in the rest of the document since it was already explained.

> Istio can detect the existence of a UNIX domain socket that implements the Envoy SDS API on a well known path, allowing Envoy to communicate and 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Istio can detect the existence of a UNIX Domain Socket that implements the Envoy SDS API on a well known path, allowing Envoy to communicate and 

```

Reviewer 4: Hey Max, [see this](https://github.com/HewlettPackard/istio.io/pull/1#discussion_r822120660).

> receive identities directly from it.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
fetch identities directly from it.
```

## Install SPIRE

### Option 1: Quick start

Istio provides a basic sample installation to quickly get SPIRE up and running:

{{< text bash >}}
$ kubectl apply -f @samples/security/envoy-sds/spire/spire-quickstart.yaml
{{< /text >}}

> This will deploy SPIRE into your cluster, along with two additional components: the [SPIFFE CSI Driver](https://github.com/spiffe/spiffe-csi) — used to share the SPIRE Agent's Unix domain socket with the other

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
This will deploy SPIRE into your cluster, along with two additional components: the [SPIFFE CSI Driver](https://github.com/spiffe/spiffe-csi) — used to share the SPIRE Agent's UDS with other
```

pods throughout the node — and the [SPIRE Kubernetes Workload Registrar](https://github.com/spiffe/spire/tree/main/support/k8s/k8s-workload-registrar), a facilitator that performs automatic workload registration
within Kubernetes. See [Install Istio](#install-istio) to configure Istio and integrate with the SPIFFE CSI Driver.

{{< warning >}}

> Note that some configurations used here may not be fully appropriate for a production environment. 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Note that some configuration used here may not be fully appropriate for a production environment. 
```

Please see [Scaling SPIRE](https://spiffe.io/docs/latest/planning/scaling_spire/) for more information on configuring SPIRE for a production environment.
{{< /warning >}}

### Option 2: Configure custom SPIRE installations

See the [SPIRE's Quickstart for Kubernetes guide](https://spiffe.io/docs/latest/try/getting-started-k8s/) 
to get started deploying SPIRE into your Kubernetes environment. See [Integration Prerequisites](#integration-prerequisites)
for more information on configuring SPIRE to integrate with Istio deployments.

#### CA Integration Prerequisites

These configuration requirements are necessary to successfully integrate Istio with SPIRE:

1. Access [SPIRE Agent reference](https://spiffe.io/docs/latest/deploying/spire_agent/#agent-configuration-file) and

>    configure the SPIRE Agent socket path to match Envoy SDS path.

Reviewer: is this a fixed-well-know path? if so, we should make it clear
```suggestion
   configure the SPIRE Agent socket path to match the well-known Envoy SDS path.

```

Reviewer: @sanderson042 `well-known` or `well known`?

Reviewer 4: On @maxlambrecht PR (for the doc on the istio-agent's README) we agreed on `defined socket path` and `defined certificate path` when referring to these paths. It would be good to be consistent around these 2 docs.

I'd try something like:
```suggestion
   configure the SPIRE Agent socket path to match Envoy SDS defined socket path.
```

   {{< text >}}
   socket_path = "/run/secrets/workload-spiffe-uds/socket"
   {{< /text >}}

2. Share the SPIRE Agent socket with the pods within the node by leveraging the
   [SPIFFE CSI Driver](https://github.com/spiffe/spiffe-csi).

3. See [Install Istio](#install-istio) to configure Istio to integrate with the SPIFFE CSI Driver.

## Install Istio

1. [Download the latest Istio release](https://istio.io/latest/docs/setup/getting-started/#download).

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> to access the SPIRE Agent socket shared by the [SPIFFE CSI Driver](https://github.com/spiffe/spiffe-csi). 

Reviewer 4: looks like left over/out of place

Reviewer 3: I agree with Juliano that something is unfinished here.

> 2. After successfully deploying SPIRE into your environment, install Istio with custom patches for istio-ingressgateways/egressgateways as well as the istio-proxy.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. After successfully [deploying SPIRE](#install-spire) into your environment, install Istio with custom patches for istio-ingressgateways/egressgateways as well as the istio-proxy.
```

                   readOnly: true
               volumes:
                 - name: workload-socket
                   csi:
                     driver: "csi.spiffe.io"
     components:
       ingressGateways:
         - name: istio-ingressgateway
           enabled: true
           label:
             istio: ingressgateway
           k8s:
             overlays:
               - apiVersion: apps/v1
                 kind: Deployment
                 name: istio-ingressgateway
                 patches:
                   - path: spec.template.spec.volumes.[name:workload-socket]
                     value:
                       name: workload-socket
                       csi:
                         driver: "csi.spiffe.io"
                   - path: spec.template.spec.containers.[name:istio-proxy].volumeMounts.[name:workload-socket]
                     value:
                       name: workload-socket
                       mountPath: "/run/secrets/workload-spiffe-uds"
                       readOnly: true
   EOF
   {{< /text >}}

3. Use [Automatic sidecar injection](https://istio.io/latest/docs/setup/additional-setup/sidecar-injection/#automatic-sidecar-injection)

> to inject automatically the spire template, in the configuration above, into new workloads pods.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to automatically inject the spire template in the configuration above, into new workloads pods.

```

This will share the spiffe-csi-driver with the Ingress Gateway and the sidecars that are going

> to be automatically injected on workload pods, granting them access to the SPIRE Agent's UNIX Domain Socket.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
to be automatically injected on workload pods, granting them access to the SPIRE Agent's UDS.

```

> * Check Ingressgateway pod state:

Reviewer: Following [Istio docs on Ingress Gateways](https://istio.io/latest/docs/tasks/traffic-management/ingress/ingress-control/), I think that if we are talking about the concept, it should be named like this -two words-, if we talk about the specific deployed component it should be `ingressgateway`, @sanderson042 thoughts?
```suggestion
* Check Ingress Gateway pod state:

```

{{< text bash >}}
$ kubectl get pods -n istio-system
NAME                                    READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
istio-ingressgateway-5b45864fd4-lgrxs   0/1     Running   0          17s
istiod-989f54d9c-sg7sn                  1/1     Running   0          23s
{{< /text >}}

> Data plane containers will only reach ready state after creating new entries for them on SPIRE Server, that way Envoy will be able

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Data plane containers will only reach the `Ready` state after creating new entries for them on the SPIRE Server, that way Envoy will be able

```

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Data plane containers will only reach the `Ready` if a corresponding registration entry is created for them on the SPIRE Server. Then, Envoy will be able
```

> to fetch cryptographic identities from SPIRE.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
to fetch their cryptographic identities from SPIRE.

```

See [Registering Workloads](#registering-workloads) to register entries for services in your mesh.

## Registering Workloads

> This section describes the options available for registering workloads in SPIRE Server.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
This section describes the available options for registering workloads in SPIRE Server.

```

### Option 1: Automatic registration using the SPIRE workload registrar

By deploying [SPIRE Kubernetes Workload Registrar](https://github.com/spiffe/spire/tree/main/support/k8s/k8s-workload-registrar)

> along with SPIRE Server to register new entries automatically for each new pod that is created.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
along with SPIRE Server so new entries are automatically registered for each new pod that is created.
```

See [Verifying that identities were created for workloads](#verifying-that-identities-were-created-for-workloads) 
to check issued identities.

### Option 2: Manual Registration

SPIRE Server is able to verify a group of values to improve workload attestation security
robustness.

1. To generate an entry for an ingress-gateway with a set of selectors such as the

>    pod name and pod-uid:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   pod name and pod UID:

```
@sanderson042 thoughts?

$ INGRESS_POD_UID=$(kubectl get pods -n istio-system $INGRESS_POD -o jsonpath='{.metadata.uid}')
{{< /text >}}

2. Get the spire-server pod:

{{< text bash >}}
$ SPIRE_SERVER_POD=$(kubectl get pod -l app=spire-server -n spire -o jsonpath="{.items[0].metadata.name}")
{{< /text >}}

3. Attest the SPIRE Agent running on the node
   {{< text bash >}}
   $ kubectl exec -n spire $SPIRE_SERVER_POD -- \
   /opt/spire/bin/spire-server entry create \
   -spiffeID spiffe://example.org/ns/spire/sa/spire-agent \
   -selector k8s_psat:cluster:demo-cluster \
   -selector k8s_psat:agent_ns:spire \
   -selector k8s_psat:agent_sa:spire-agent \
   -node -socketPath /run/spire/sockets/server.sock
   
   Entry ID         : d38c88d0-7d7a-4957-933c-361a0a3b039c
   SPIFFE ID        : spiffe://example.org/ns/spire/sa/spire-agent
   Parent ID        : spiffe://example.org/spire/server
   Revision         : 0
   TTL              : default
   Selector         : k8s_psat:agent_ns:spire
   Selector         : k8s_psat:agent_sa:spire-agent
   Selector         : k8s_psat:cluster:demo-cluster
   {{</ text >}}

> 4. and then register an entry for istio-ingressgateway pod.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Register an entry for the istio-ingressgateway pod.

```

   {{< text bash >}}
   $ kubectl exec -n spire $SPIRE_SERVER_POD -- \
   /opt/spire/bin/spire-server entry create \
   -spiffeID spiffe://example.org/ns/istio-system/sa/istio-ingressgateway-service-account \
   -parentID spiffe://example.org/ns/spire/sa/spire-agent \
   -selector k8s:sa:istio-ingressgateway-service-account \
   -selector k8s:ns:istio-system \
   -selector k8s:pod-uid:$INGRESS_POD_UID \
   -dns $INGRESS_POD \
   -dns istio-ingressgateway.istio-system.svc \
   -socketPath /run/spire/sockets/server.sock

   Entry ID         : 6f2fe370-5261-4361-ac36-10aae8d91ff7
   SPIFFE ID        : spiffe://example.org/ns/istio-system/sa/istio-ingressgateway-service-account
   Parent ID        : spiffe://example.org/ns/spire/sa/spire-agent
   Revision         : 0
   TTL              : default
   Selector         : k8s:ns:istio-system
   Selector         : k8s:pod-uid:63c2bbf5-a8b1-4b1f-ad64-f62ad2a69807
   Selector         : k8s:sa:istio-ingressgateway-service-account
   DNS name         : istio-ingressgateway.istio-system.svc
   DNS name         : istio-ingressgateway-c48554dd6-cff5z
   {{</ text >}}

5. Deploy an example workload:

{{< text bash >}}

> $ istioctl kube-inject --filename @samples/httpbin/httpbin.yaml | kubectl apply -f -

Reviewer 4: Does this work without adding the annotation for the sidecar injection?

Author: It doesn't work, why do you ask?

Reviewer 4: Assuming the user perspective here, I'd probably expect this deployment to be working as if it were correctly integrated with SPIRE and Istio (we're showing that SPIRE acknowledged this service, but Istio will not be using SPIRE issued identities when doing mTLS). 
I think at least being clear about this, or mentioning about the need for annotations to inject the custom sidecar template (probably somewhere else) would be good enough. IMO this information is pretty hidden for a basic deployment requirement (can be found in the `istio-config.yaml` provided in the other PR).

Author: I see what you mean, assuming that the user installed Istio using the patch from Install Istio section, every `istioctl` injection will apply the `spire` template to the deployment spec of the workload. I will add an aditional reminder that the workload will need to access the csi volume and link to the spire template of the `istio-config`, or tell them to add the csi volume to the their workload spec.

{{< /text >}}

6. Get pod information:

{{< text bash >}}
$ HTTPBIN_POD=$(kubectl get pod -l app=httpbin -o jsonpath="{.items[0].metadata.name}")
$ HTTPBIN_POD_UID=$(kubectl get pods $HTTPBIN_POD -o jsonpath='{.metadata.uid}')
{{< /text >}}

7. Register workload.

   {{< text bash >}}
   $ kubectl exec -n spire spire-server-0 -- \
   /opt/spire/bin/spire-server entry create \
   -spiffeID spiffe://example.org/ns/default/sa/httpbin \
   -parentID spiffe://example.org/ns/spire/sa/spire-agent \
   -selector k8s:ns:default \
   -selector k8s:pod-uid:$HTTPBIN_POD_UID \
   -dns $HTTPBIN_POD \
   -socketPath /run/spire/sockets/server.sock
   {{< /text >}}

{{< warning >}}

> SPIFFE IDs for workloads must follow the Istio SPIFFE ID pattern: spiffe://<trust.domain>/ns/<namespace>/sa/<service-account>

Reviewer: can we use code snippets inside `{{<warning >}}`?
```suggestion
SPIFFE IDs for workloads must follow the Istio SPIFFE ID pattern: `spiffe://<trust.domain>/ns/<namespace>/sa/<service-account>`

```

Author: Let me check

Author: Yes, it is possible

   Parent ID        : spiffe://example.org/ns/spire/sa/spire-agent
   Revision         : 0
   TTL              : default
   Selector         : k8s:ns:istio-system
   Selector         : k8s:pod-uid:88b71387-4641-4d9c-9a89-989c88f7509d
   Selector         : k8s:sa:istio-ingressgateway-service-account
   DNS name         : istio-ingressgateway-c48554dd6-cff5z

   Entry ID         : af7b53dc-4cc9-40d3-aaeb-08abbddd8e54
   SPIFFE ID        : spiffe://example.org/ns/default/sa/httpbin
   Parent ID        : spiffe://example.org/ns/spire/sa/spire-agent
   Revision         : 0
   TTL              : default
   Selector         : k8s:ns:default
   Selector         : k8s:pod-uid:ee490447-e502-46bd-8532-5a746b0871d6
   DNS name         : httpbin-5f4d47c948-njvpk

   Entry ID         : f0544fd7-1945-4bd1-88dc-0a5513fdae1c
   SPIFFE ID        : spiffe://example.org/ns/spire/sa/spire-agent
   Parent ID        : spiffe://example.org/spire/server
   Revision         : 0
   TTL              : default
   Selector         : k8s_psat:agent_ns:spire
   Selector         : k8s_psat:agent_sa:spire-agent
   Selector         : k8s_psat:cluster:demo-cluster
   {{< /text >}}

> * Check Ingressgateway pod state:

Reviewer 4: if we're referring to the component, I think it should all be uncapitalized; same other occurences.
```suggestion
* Check istio-ingressgateway pod state:
```

    Fw0yMjAzMTAwMzMyMjVaMEAxCzAJBgNVBAYTAlVTMQ4wDAYDVQQKEwVTUElSRTEh
    MB8GA1UEAxMYaHR0cGJpbi01ZjRkNDdjOTQ4LXptNnN0MFkwEwYHKoZIzj0CAQYI
    KoZIzj0DAQcDQgAEMveAwlgnO7YjRZ4vKsAkCYZu3W0REs1nKu/XPEWEBzfht3hl
    grziL3mLnECWeDnTdakjTnowESCsg3cidOpWEaOB0TCBzjAOBgNVHQ8BAf8EBAMC
    A6gwHQYDVR0lBBYwFAYIKwYBBQUHAwEGCCsGAQUFBwMCMAwGA1UdEwEB/wQCMAAw
    HQYDVR0OBBYEFHnxGd7U2ADDw4GouBb0wPLorrHeMB8GA1UdIwQYMBaAFLnNFhHO
    0Xsdte9uf3VLILKA7TGtME8GA1UdEQRIMEaCGGh0dHBiaW4tNWY0ZDQ3Yzk0OC16
    bTZzdIYqc3BpZmZlOi8vZXhhbXBsZS5vcmcvbnMvZGVmYXVsdC9zYS9odHRwYmlu
    MA0GCSqGSIb3DQEBCwUAA4IBAQA6UZagZrw/htbpD7HbcmD17sQ2xv1+nMrRFZGZ
    M9bO924uyz9MiEf/iR3jKD+wXrJdmyjJ+5Mas4QGnggaGUfDmE2wrVlFKIqY8R1E
    hZonQm8YeWN4CtDijyAxHihgKTV2V2inrHaaqp1r2/Upt3/4XrZf1f1eqpl03hT9
    +OPu0SV8MUPTPAXqaIPfjmV9fTTMYQg4g4smsijVKAl6lVs+PsZiqbcgEeUnT2JL
    lel5nNXdXqKhygfqKesI30BERGPvZ5vdMtUrGxe0L5CPJrkcrtn/vRTuMsXWSr4m
    VAw3TEEXVdnd3VuAIsKO+6J7biMZH6jhm/sPUqTrdjH/L7S7
    -----END CERTIFICATE-----
    ---
    Server certificate
    subject=C = US, O = SPIRE, CN = httpbin-5f4d47c948-zm6st
    
    issuer=C = US, O = SPIFFE
   ...
   {{< /text >}}

## SPIFFE Federation

> SPIRE Servers are able to authenticate SPIFFE identities originated from different trust domains, this is known as SPIFFE federation.

Reviewer: Here we can link to either the guide on spiffe.io on [Deploying SPIFFE Federation Architecture](https://spiffe.io/docs/latest/architecture/federation/readme/) or the [SPIFFE Federation spec](https://github.com/spiffe/spiffe/blob/main/standards/SPIFFE_Federation.md). I guess the latter would make more sense but don't feel strongly about it.

Reviewer 4: I think maybe the first, as it looks more related to what we will cover in this section? (as they're both instructions). Probably not a strong argument as well, just trying to add something 😛

to verify peer certificates and trust a workload from another trust domain.   
To enable Istio to federate SPIFFE identities through SPIRE integration:

1. Consult [SPIRE Agent SDS configuration](https://github.com/spiffe/spire/blob/main/doc/spire_agent.md#sds-configuration) and set the following 
SDS configuration values for your SPIRE Agent configuration file.

| Configuration              | Description                                                                                      | Resource Name |
|----------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|---------------|
| `default_svid_name`        | The TLS Certificate resource name to use for the default X509-SVID with Envoy SDS                | default       |
| `default_bundle_name`      | The Validation Context resource name to use for the default X.509 bundle with Envoy SDS          | null          |
| `default_all_bundles_name` | The Validation Context resource name to use for all bundles (including federated) with Envoy SDS | ROOTCA        |

This will allow Envoy to get federated bundles directly from SPIRE.

> 2. In your workload deployment, add the pod annotation `spiffe.io/federatesWith`, specifying the trust domain you want the pod federated with:

Reviewer 2: I think that here we should clarify that this corresponds to the scenario where the K8s Workload Registrar is used. We could also add an example using the manual registration.

---
title: Istio CA Integration with SPIRE 
linktitle: How to integrate Istio with SPIRE through Envoy SDS API.
description: Describes how to configure Istio to integrate with SPIRE to get cryptographic identities through Envoy's SDS API.
weight: 40
keywords: [kubernetes,spiffe,spire]
aliases:
owner: istio/wg-networking-maintainers
test: no
---

> 

Reviewer 3: Would it be useful for this document to have a "Configuration reference" section similar to the [SPIRE Agent Configuration Reference](https://spiffe.io/docs/latest/deploying/spire_agent/) page? Such a section would be one or more tables of all SPIRE config file settings relevant to this Istio integration. The federation section does have something similar, but are there any other settings like that?

Author: I don't think it is necessary, there is only one configuration required for the integration to happen, it is just the socket path. There is an addtional configuration if the user wants to federate workloads, but is not required for the overall integration.

[SPIRE](https://spiffe.io/docs/latest/spire-about/spire-concepts/) is a production-ready implementation of the SPIFFE specification that performs node and workload attestation in order to securely issue cryptographic identities to workloads running in heterogeneous environments.  

> In an Istio deployment, SPIRE can be configured as a source of cryptographic identities for Istio workloads through the integration with [Envoy's SDS API](https://www.envoyproxy.io/docs/envoy/latest/configuration/security/secret).

Reviewer 3: I think "In an Istio deployment" may be redundant.
```suggestion
SPIRE can be configured as a source of cryptographic identities for Istio workloads through an integration with [Envoy's SDS API](https://www.envoyproxy.io/docs/envoy/latest/configuration/security/secret).
```

Istio can detect the existence of a UNIX domain socket that implements the Envoy SDS API on a defined socket path, allowing Envoy to communicate and 

> fetch identities directly from it.

Reviewer 3: Here I'm trying to clarify that the socket is how Istio communicates with SPIRE:
```suggestion
Istio can detect the existence of a UNIX domain socket that implements the Envoy SDS API on a defined socket path, allowing Envoy to communicate with SPIRE and fetch SPIRE identities from the socket.
```
Maybe before submitting this PR to Istio, you could reflow the paragraphs so they don't have inconsistent line breaks. I think it would look more neat for the PR reviewers.

Author: I will go through the doc and fix those inconsistent line breaks, thanks for pointing it out.

> 

Reviewer 3: I'd like to see another paragraph that explains the advantages of this new integration compared to the native Istio identity capabilities. My proposed text for this is below. Other ideas that could be added: heterogeneous capability, X.509 or JWT SVID.

> This integration with SPIRE provides flexible attestation options not available with the default Istio identity management while harnessing Istio's powerful service management. For example, SPIRE's plugin architecture enables diverse workload attestation options beyond the Kubernetes namespace and service account attestation offered by Istio. SPIRE's node attestation extends attestation to the physical or virtual hardware on which workloads run.

Author: You rock, @sanderson042! Thanks for the suggestion!

## Install SPIRE

### Option 1: Quick start

Istio provides a basic sample installation to quickly get SPIRE up and running:

{{< text bash >}}

> $ kubectl apply -f @samples/security/envoy-sds/spire/spire-quickstart.yaml

Reviewer 3: Is this the YAML file from the sample that @jufantozzi is working on? If so, let's make sure the paths agree. In Juliano's PR, the path seems to be ...samples/security/spire/spire-quickstart.yaml (no `envoy-sds`).

Author: Nice catch, I will sync the path!

{{< /text >}}

This will deploy SPIRE into your cluster, along with two additional components: the [SPIFFE CSI Driver](https://github.com/spiffe/spiffe-csi) — used to share the SPIRE Agent's UNIX domain socket with the other
pods throughout the node — and the [SPIRE Kubernetes Workload Registrar](https://github.com/spiffe/spire/tree/main/support/k8s/k8s-workload-registrar), a facilitator that performs automatic workload registration
within Kubernetes. See [Install Istio](#install-istio) to configure Istio and integrate with the SPIFFE CSI Driver.

{{< warning >}}
Note that some configuration used here may not be fully appropriate for a production environment. 

> Please see [Scaling SPIRE](https://spiffe.io/docs/latest/planning/scaling_spire/) for more information on configuring SPIRE for a production environment.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Note that some configuration choices used in `spire-quickstart.yaml` may not be fully appropriate for a production environment. 

See [Scaling SPIRE](https://spiffe.io/docs/latest/planning/scaling_spire/) for more information on configuring SPIRE for a production environment.
```
It would be nice to briefly give an example of what configuration choices in the YAML may not work well in a production environment. 

In the [world of Istio](https://istio.io/latest/docs/releases/contribute/style-guide/#use-simple-and-direct-language), don't say "please" 😆 .

{{< /warning >}}

> ### Option 2: Configure custom SPIRE installations

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### Option 2: Configure a custom SPIRE installation
```

See the [SPIRE's Quickstart for Kubernetes guide](https://spiffe.io/docs/latest/try/getting-started-k8s/) 

> to get started deploying SPIRE into your Kubernetes environment. See [Integration Prerequisites](#integration-prerequisites)

Reviewer 3: If you're linking to the section just next, both parts of the link don't match.

for more information on configuring SPIRE to integrate with Istio deployments.

#### CA Integration Prerequisites

These configuration requirements are necessary to successfully integrate Istio with SPIRE:

1. Access [SPIRE Agent reference](https://spiffe.io/docs/latest/deploying/spire_agent/#agent-configuration-file) and

>    configure the SPIRE Agent socket path to match Envoy SDS defined socket path.

Reviewer 3: It's missing a "the" before Envoy:
```suggestion
1. Access [SPIRE Agent reference](https://spiffe.io/docs/latest/deploying/spire_agent/#agent-configuration-file) and
   configure the SPIRE Agent socket path to match the Envoy SDS defined socket path.

```

   {{< text >}}
   socket_path = "/run/secrets/workload-spiffe-uds/socket"
   {{< /text >}}

2. Share the SPIRE Agent socket with the pods within the node by leveraging the

>    [SPIFFE CSI Driver](https://github.com/spiffe/spiffe-csi).

Reviewer 3: Sorry if I said this before, but this seems a little vague to me. Maybe you could change "leveraging" to "deploying" or "integrating".

3. See [Install Istio](#install-istio) to configure Istio to integrate with the SPIFFE CSI Driver.

## Install Istio

1. [Download the latest Istio release](https://istio.io/latest/docs/setup/getting-started/#download).
to access the SPIRE Agent socket shared by the [SPIFFE CSI Driver](https://github.com/spiffe/spiffe-csi). 

2. After successfully [deploying SPIRE](#install-spire) into your environment, install Istio with custom patches for istio-ingressgateways/egressgateways as well as the istio-proxy.

   {{< text bash >}}

>    $ istioctl install --skip-confirmation -f - <<EOF

Reviewer 3: This is a long text import. In my opinion this should be put into a file that lives in the repo instead.

                   readOnly: true
               volumes:
                 - name: workload-socket
                   csi:
                     driver: "csi.spiffe.io"
     components:
       ingressGateways:
         - name: istio-ingressgateway
           enabled: true
           label:
             istio: ingressgateway
           k8s:
             overlays:
               - apiVersion: apps/v1
                 kind: Deployment
                 name: istio-ingressgateway
                 patches:
                   - path: spec.template.spec.volumes.[name:workload-socket]
                     value:
                       name: workload-socket
                       csi:
                         driver: "csi.spiffe.io"
                   - path: spec.template.spec.containers.[name:istio-proxy].volumeMounts.[name:workload-socket]
                     value:
                       name: workload-socket
                       mountPath: "/run/secrets/workload-spiffe-uds"
                       readOnly: true
   EOF
   {{< /text >}}

3. Use [Automatic sidecar injection](https://istio.io/latest/docs/setup/additional-setup/sidecar-injection/#automatic-sidecar-injection)

> to automatically inject the spire template in the configuration above, into new workloads pods.

Reviewer 3: No need for a comma here and let's make spire monospace.
```suggestion
to automatically inject the `spire` template in the configuration above into new workloads pods.

```

> This will share the spiffe-csi-driver with the Ingress Gateway and the sidecars that are going

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This will share the `spiffe-csi-driver` with the Ingress Gateway and the sidecars that are going

```

to be automatically injected on workload pods, granting them access to the SPIRE Agent's UNIX Domain Socket.

> * Check istio-ingressgateway pod state:

Reviewer 3: I wonder why this is a bullet instead of step 4?

{{< text bash >}}
$ kubectl get pods -n istio-system
NAME                                    READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
istio-ingressgateway-5b45864fd4-lgrxs   0/1     Running   0          17s
istiod-989f54d9c-sg7sn                  1/1     Running   0          23s
{{< /text >}}

> Data plane containers will only reach the `Ready` if a corresponding registration entry is created for them on the SPIRE Server. Then, Envoy will be able

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Data plane containers will only reach the `Ready` state if a corresponding registration entry is created for them on the SPIRE Server. Then, Envoy will be able
```

to fetch cryptographic identities from SPIRE.
See [Registering Workloads](#registering-workloads) to register entries for services in your mesh.

> ## Registering Workloads

Reviewer 3: The reason I'm suggesting this change is that the earlier headings use the imperative verb form: Install SPIRE, Install Istio. If the earlier headings used a gerund like this (Installing SPIRE, Installing Istio) then Registering would be consistent.
```suggestion
## Register workloads
```

This section describes the options available for registering workloads in SPIRE Server.

### Option 1: Automatic registration using the SPIRE workload registrar

By deploying [SPIRE Kubernetes Workload Registrar](https://github.com/spiffe/spire/tree/main/support/k8s/k8s-workload-registrar)

> along with SPIRE Server so new entries are automatically registered for each new pod that is created.

Reviewer 3: This sentence needs a tweak to be grammatically correct.
```suggestion
By deploying [SPIRE Kubernetes Workload Registrar](https://github.com/spiffe/spire/tree/main/support/k8s/k8s-workload-registrar)
along with SPIRE Server, new entries are automatically registered for each new pod that is created.

```

See [Verifying that identities were created for workloads](#verifying-that-identities-were-created-for-workloads) 
to check issued identities.

### Option 2: Manual Registration

SPIRE Server is able to verify a group of values to improve workload attestation security
robustness.

> 1. To generate an entry for an ingress-gateway with a set of selectors such as the

Reviewer 3: I think @mchurichi suggested Ingress Gateway for cases like this.
```suggestion
1. To generate an entry for an Ingress Gateway with a set of selectors such as the

```

   pod name and pod UID:

{{< text bash >}}
$ INGRESS_POD=$(kubectl get pod -l istio=ingressgateway -n istio-system -o jsonpath="{.items[0].metadata.name}")
$ INGRESS_POD_UID=$(kubectl get pods -n istio-system $INGRESS_POD -o jsonpath='{.metadata.uid}')
{{< /text >}}

2. Get the spire-server pod:

{{< text bash >}}
$ SPIRE_SERVER_POD=$(kubectl get pod -l app=spire-server -n spire -o jsonpath="{.items[0].metadata.name}")
{{< /text >}}

> 3. Attest the SPIRE Agent running on the node

Reviewer 3: Please use a colon at the end to be consistent.
```suggestion
3. Attest the SPIRE Agent running on the node:

```

   {{< text bash >}}
   $ kubectl exec -n spire $SPIRE_SERVER_POD -- \
   /opt/spire/bin/spire-server entry create \
   -spiffeID spiffe://example.org/ns/spire/sa/spire-agent \
   -selector k8s_psat:cluster:demo-cluster \
   -selector k8s_psat:agent_ns:spire \
   -selector k8s_psat:agent_sa:spire-agent \
   -node -socketPath /run/spire/sockets/server.sock
   
   Entry ID         : d38c88d0-7d7a-4957-933c-361a0a3b039c
   SPIFFE ID        : spiffe://example.org/ns/spire/sa/spire-agent
   Parent ID        : spiffe://example.org/spire/server
   Revision         : 0
   TTL              : default
   Selector         : k8s_psat:agent_ns:spire
   Selector         : k8s_psat:agent_sa:spire-agent
   Selector         : k8s_psat:cluster:demo-cluster
   {{</ text >}}

> 4. Register an entry for the istio-ingressgateway pod.

Reviewer 3: Please use a colon at the end to be consistent.

   -selector k8s:sa:istio-ingressgateway-service-account \
   -selector k8s:ns:istio-system \
   -selector k8s:pod-uid:$INGRESS_POD_UID \
   -dns $INGRESS_POD \
   -dns istio-ingressgateway.istio-system.svc \
   -socketPath /run/spire/sockets/server.sock

   Entry ID         : 6f2fe370-5261-4361-ac36-10aae8d91ff7
   SPIFFE ID        : spiffe://example.org/ns/istio-system/sa/istio-ingressgateway-service-account
   Parent ID        : spiffe://example.org/ns/spire/sa/spire-agent
   Revision         : 0
   TTL              : default
   Selector         : k8s:ns:istio-system
   Selector         : k8s:pod-uid:63c2bbf5-a8b1-4b1f-ad64-f62ad2a69807
   Selector         : k8s:sa:istio-ingressgateway-service-account
   DNS name         : istio-ingressgateway.istio-system.svc
   DNS name         : istio-ingressgateway-c48554dd6-cff5z
   {{</ text >}}

5. Deploy an example workload:

{{< text bash >}}
$ istioctl kube-inject --filename @samples/httpbin/httpbin.yaml | kubectl apply -f -
{{< /text >}}

Note that the workload will need the SPIFFE CSI Driver volume to access the SPIRE Agent socket, you can leverage the spire template pod annotation

> from [Install Istio](#install-istio) section or add the csi volume to the deployment spec of your workload.

Reviewer 3: I think both lines here should be indented so the paragraph displays at the same indentation level as step 5.
```suggestion
Note that the workload will need the SPIFFE CSI Driver volume to access the SPIRE Agent socket. You can leverage the spire template pod annotation
from the [Install Istio](#install-istio) section or add the csi volume to the deployment spec of your workload.

```

6. Get pod information:

{{< text bash >}}
$ HTTPBIN_POD=$(kubectl get pod -l app=httpbin -o jsonpath="{.items[0].metadata.name}")
$ HTTPBIN_POD_UID=$(kubectl get pods $HTTPBIN_POD -o jsonpath='{.metadata.uid}')
{{< /text >}}

> 7. Register workload.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
7. Register the workload:
```

   {{< text bash >}}
   $ kubectl exec -n spire spire-server-0 -- \
   /opt/spire/bin/spire-server entry create \
   -spiffeID spiffe://example.org/ns/default/sa/httpbin \
   -parentID spiffe://example.org/ns/spire/sa/spire-agent \
   -selector k8s:ns:default \
   -selector k8s:pod-uid:$HTTPBIN_POD_UID \
   -dns $HTTPBIN_POD \
   -socketPath /run/spire/sockets/server.sock
   {{< /text >}}

{{< warning >}}
SPIFFE IDs for workloads must follow the Istio SPIFFE ID pattern: `spiffe://<trust.domain>/ns/<namespace>/sa/<service-account>`

{{< /warning >}}

See the [SPIRE help on Registering workloads](https://spiffe.io/docs/latest/deploying/registering/) to learn how to create new entries for workloads and get them attested using multiple selectors to strengthen attestation criteria.

## Verifying that identities were created for workloads

> Confirm that identities were created for the workloads.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Use the following command to confirm that identities were created for the workloads:

```

   Parent ID        : spiffe://example.org/ns/spire/sa/spire-agent
   Revision         : 0
   TTL              : default
   Selector         : k8s:ns:istio-system
   Selector         : k8s:pod-uid:88b71387-4641-4d9c-9a89-989c88f7509d
   Selector         : k8s:sa:istio-ingressgateway-service-account
   DNS name         : istio-ingressgateway-c48554dd6-cff5z

   Entry ID         : af7b53dc-4cc9-40d3-aaeb-08abbddd8e54
   SPIFFE ID        : spiffe://example.org/ns/default/sa/httpbin
   Parent ID        : spiffe://example.org/ns/spire/sa/spire-agent
   Revision         : 0
   TTL              : default
   Selector         : k8s:ns:default
   Selector         : k8s:pod-uid:ee490447-e502-46bd-8532-5a746b0871d6
   DNS name         : httpbin-5f4d47c948-njvpk

   Entry ID         : f0544fd7-1945-4bd1-88dc-0a5513fdae1c
   SPIFFE ID        : spiffe://example.org/ns/spire/sa/spire-agent
   Parent ID        : spiffe://example.org/spire/server
   Revision         : 0
   TTL              : default
   Selector         : k8s_psat:agent_ns:spire
   Selector         : k8s_psat:agent_sa:spire-agent
   Selector         : k8s_psat:cluster:demo-cluster
   {{< /text >}}

> * Check istio-ingressgateway pod state:

Reviewer 3: Sorry, I'm confused about why we're checking the pod state here and how it relates to the previous command. Could you explain it in the doc? Also, if the two commands are really related, let's make them steps instead of bullets.

Author: It is just to showcase that the istio-ingressgateway and istio-proxy containers needs to be registred on the SPIRE server so they can finish their startup process, my though on this was to connect the flow with the next section.

{{< text bash >}}
$ kubectl get pods -n istio-system
NAME                                    READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
istio-ingressgateway-5b45864fd4-lgrxs   1/1     Running   0          60s
istiod-989f54d9c-sg7sn                  1/1     Running   0          45s
{{< /text >}}

After registering an entry for istio-ingressgateway pod, Envoy receives the identity issued by SPIRE and uses it for all TLS and mTLS 
communications.

> ### Check Certificate

Reviewer 3: After this heading, could you write a sentence about what this section is about like you did for the previous section? Maybe something like: "Use the following commands to verify that the identity issued to the sample httpbin service deployed in the manual registration example above is an X.509 certificate issued by SPIRE."

I'm assuming that this section only applies to the manual registration method you outlined earlier? 

I'd like to make this heading a little more specific. Does this make sense?
```suggestion
### Check that the httpbin identity was issued by SPIRE
```

> * Get httpbin service address:

Reviewer 3: Let make this two steps instead of two bullets.
```suggestion
1. Get httpbin service address:

```

{{< text bash >}}
$ kubectl get service httpbin
NAME      TYPE        CLUSTER-IP     EXTERNAL-IP   PORT(S)    AGE
httpbin   ClusterIP   10.96.55.188   <none>        8000/TCP   40s
{{< /text >}}

> * Verify that the httpbin certificate was issued by SPIRE.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
2. Verify that the httpbin certificate was issued by SPIRE.
```

    Fw0yMjAzMTAwMzMyMjVaMEAxCzAJBgNVBAYTAlVTMQ4wDAYDVQQKEwVTUElSRTEh
    MB8GA1UEAxMYaHR0cGJpbi01ZjRkNDdjOTQ4LXptNnN0MFkwEwYHKoZIzj0CAQYI
    KoZIzj0DAQcDQgAEMveAwlgnO7YjRZ4vKsAkCYZu3W0REs1nKu/XPEWEBzfht3hl
    grziL3mLnECWeDnTdakjTnowESCsg3cidOpWEaOB0TCBzjAOBgNVHQ8BAf8EBAMC
    A6gwHQYDVR0lBBYwFAYIKwYBBQUHAwEGCCsGAQUFBwMCMAwGA1UdEwEB/wQCMAAw
    HQYDVR0OBBYEFHnxGd7U2ADDw4GouBb0wPLorrHeMB8GA1UdIwQYMBaAFLnNFhHO
    0Xsdte9uf3VLILKA7TGtME8GA1UdEQRIMEaCGGh0dHBiaW4tNWY0ZDQ3Yzk0OC16
    bTZzdIYqc3BpZmZlOi8vZXhhbXBsZS5vcmcvbnMvZGVmYXVsdC9zYS9odHRwYmlu
    MA0GCSqGSIb3DQEBCwUAA4IBAQA6UZagZrw/htbpD7HbcmD17sQ2xv1+nMrRFZGZ
    M9bO924uyz9MiEf/iR3jKD+wXrJdmyjJ+5Mas4QGnggaGUfDmE2wrVlFKIqY8R1E
    hZonQm8YeWN4CtDijyAxHihgKTV2V2inrHaaqp1r2/Upt3/4XrZf1f1eqpl03hT9
    +OPu0SV8MUPTPAXqaIPfjmV9fTTMYQg4g4smsijVKAl6lVs+PsZiqbcgEeUnT2JL
    lel5nNXdXqKhygfqKesI30BERGPvZ5vdMtUrGxe0L5CPJrkcrtn/vRTuMsXWSr4m
    VAw3TEEXVdnd3VuAIsKO+6J7biMZH6jhm/sPUqTrdjH/L7S7
    -----END CERTIFICATE-----
    ---
    Server certificate
    subject=C = US, O = SPIRE, CN = httpbin-5f4d47c948-zm6st
    
    issuer=C = US, O = SPIFFE
   ...
   {{< /text >}}

## SPIFFE Federation

> SPIRE Servers are able to authenticate SPIFFE identities originated from different trust domains, this is known as SPIFFE federation.

Reviewer 3: Please make this two sentences.
```suggestion
SPIRE Servers are able to authenticate SPIFFE identities originated from different trust domains. This is known as SPIFFE federation.

```

SPIRE Agent can be configured to push federated bundles to Envoy through the Envoy SDS API, allowing Envoy to use [validation context](https://spiffe.io/docs/latest/microservices/envoy/#validation-context)
to verify peer certificates and trust a workload from another trust domain.   

> To enable Istio to federate SPIFFE identities through SPIRE integration:
> 
> * Consult [SPIRE Agent SDS configuration](https://github.com/spiffe/spire/blob/main/doc/spire_agent.md#sds-configuration) and set the following 

Reviewer 3: These sentences can be combined. Since this is more of a reference section rather than a procedure, no need for a bullet or steps.

```suggestion
To enable Istio to federate SPIFFE identities through SPIRE integration, consult [SPIRE Agent SDS configuration](https://github.com/spiffe/spire/blob/main/doc/spire_agent.md#sds-configuration) and set the following 

```

SDS configuration values for your SPIRE Agent configuration file.

| Configuration              | Description                                                                                      | Resource Name |
|----------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|---------------|
| `default_svid_name`        | The TLS Certificate resource name to use for the default X509-SVID with Envoy SDS                | default       |
| `default_bundle_name`      | The Validation Context resource name to use for the default X.509 bundle with Envoy SDS          | null          |

> | `default_all_bundles_name` | The Validation Context resource name to use for all bundles (including federated) with Envoy SDS | ROOTCA        |

Reviewer 3: I don't think validation context needs to be capitalized.

This will allow Envoy to get federated bundles directly from SPIRE.

> ### Create Federated Registration Entries

Reviewer 3: The [Istio Style Guide](https://istio.io/latest/docs/releases/contribute/style-guide/#use-sentence-case-for-headings) recommends sentence case for headings.
```suggestion
### Create federated registration entries

```

* If using the SPIRE Kubernetes Workload Registrar, create federated entries for workloads by  
adding the pod annotation `spiffe.io/federatesWith` to the service deployment spec, specifying the trust domain you want the pod to federate with:

   {{< text  >}}
   podAnnotations:
     spiffe.io/federatesWith: "<trust.domain>"
   {{< /text >}}

* For manual registration see [Create Registration Entries for Federation](https://spiffe.io/docs/latest/architecture/federation/readme/#create-registration-entries-for-federation).

## Cleanup SPIRE

> * If you installed SPIRE using the quick start SPIRE deployment provided by Istio, use

Reviewer 3: Thanks for clarifying the intent here. But no need for this to be a bullet. Just a normal paragraph is fine.
```suggestion
If you installed SPIRE using the quick start SPIRE deployment provided by Istio, use
```

$ kubectl exec -n spire $SPIRE_SERVER_POD -- \
/opt/spire/bin/spire-server entry create \
-spiffeID spiffe://example.org/ns/istio-system/sa/istio-ingressgateway-service-account \
-parentID spiffe://example.org/ns/spire/sa/spire-agent \
-selector k8s:sa:istio-ingressgateway-service-account \
-selector k8s:ns:istio-system \
-selector k8s:pod-uid:$INGRESS_POD_UID \
-dns $INGRESS_POD \
-dns istio-ingressgateway.istio-system.svc \
-socketPath /run/spire/sockets/server.sock

Entry ID         : 6f2fe370-5261-4361-ac36-10aae8d91ff7
SPIFFE ID        : spiffe://example.org/ns/istio-system/sa/istio-ingressgateway-service-account
Parent ID        : spiffe://example.org/ns/spire/sa/spire-agent
Revision         : 0
TTL              : default
Selector         : k8s:ns:istio-system
Selector         : k8s:pod-uid:63c2bbf5-a8b1-4b1f-ad64-f62ad2a69807
Selector         : k8s:sa:istio-ingressgateway-service-account
DNS name         : istio-ingressgateway.istio-system.svc
DNS name         : istio-ingressgateway-c48554dd6-cff5z
{{</ text >}}

5. Deploy an example workload:

{{< text bash >}}
$ istioctl kube-inject --filename @samples/security/spire/sleep-spire.yaml | kubectl apply -f -
{{< /text >}}

> Note that the workload will need the SPIFFE CSI Driver volume to access the SPIRE Agent socket. You can leverage the spire template pod annotation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that the workload will need the SPIFFE CSI Driver volume to access the SPIRE Agent socket. You can leverage the `spire` pod annotation template

```

> from [Install Istio](#install-istio) section or add the csi volume to the deployment spec of your workload, both options are highlighted

Reviewer: ```suggestion
from [Install Istio](#install-istio) section or add the CSI volume to the deployment spec of your workload, both options are highlighted

```

on a custom deployment for the `sleep` app in the snippet below:

{{< text yaml >}}
apiVersion: apps/v1
kind: Deployment
metadata:
  name: sleep
spec:
  replicas: 1
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      app: sleep
  template:
    metadata:
      labels:
        app: sleep
      # Injects custom sidecar template
      annotations:
        inject.istio.io/templates: "sidecar,spire"
    spec:
      terminationGracePeriodSeconds: 0
      serviceAccountName: sleep
      containers:
      - name: sleep
        image: curlimages/curl
        command: ["/bin/sleep", "3650d"]
        imagePullPolicy: IfNotPresent
        volumeMounts:
        - name: tmp
          mountPath: /tmp
        securityContext:
          runAsUser: 1000
      volumes:
      - name: tmp
        emptyDir: {}

>       # csi volume

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      # CSI volume

```

---
title: Istio CA Integration with SPIRE 
linktitle: How to integrate Istio with SPIRE through Envoy SDS API.
description: Describes how to configure Istio to integrate with SPIRE to get cryptographic identities through Envoy's SDS API.
weight: 40
keywords: [kubernetes,spiffe,spire]
aliases:
owner: istio/wg-networking-maintainers
test: no
---

> [SPIRE](https://spiffe.io/docs/latest/spire-about/spire-concepts/) is a production-ready implementation of the SPIFFE specification that performs node and workload attestation in order to securely issue cryptographic identities to workloads running in heterogeneous environments.  

Reviewer 3: The hard paragraph breaks need to be fixed in a couple places (see attached screenshot). I think the problem is that Markdown interprets two or more spaces at EOL plus a line break as an HTML `<br>` character. So if you just delete the two spaces from the end of the two affected lines, it should fix the problem. Besides this line, the next one with spaces at EOL starts with "SPIRE Agent can be configured to push..."

<img width="782" alt="Screen Shot 2022-03-15 at 11 54 18 AM" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/54969501/158452547-76df5f6c-1043-4d1f-b5f4-decbe705c8e4.png">

Author: Got it!

[Envoy's SDS API](https://www.envoyproxy.io/docs/envoy/latest/configuration/security/secret). Istio can detect the existence of a UNIX domain socket that implements the Envoy SDS API on a defined
socket path, allowing Envoy to communicate and fetch identities directly from it.

This integration with SPIRE provides flexible attestation options not available with the default Istio identity management while harnessing Istio's powerful service management.
For example, SPIRE's plugin architecture enables diverse workload attestation options beyond the Kubernetes namespace and service account attestation offered by Istio.
SPIRE's node attestation extends attestation to the physical or virtual hardware on which workloads run.

For a quick demo of how this SPIRE integration with Istio works, see [Integrating SPIRE as a CA through Envoy's SDS API](https://github.com/istio/istio/tree/master/samples/security/spire).

## Install SPIRE

### Option 1: Quick start

Istio provides a basic sample installation to quickly get SPIRE up and running:

{{< text bash >}}
$ kubectl apply -f @samples/security/spire/spire-quickstart.yaml
{{< /text >}}

> This will deploy SPIRE into your cluster, along with two additional components: the [SPIFFE CSI Driver](https://github.com/spiffe/spiffe-csi) — used to share the SPIRE Agent's UNIX domain socket with the other

Reviewer 3: Could you do a search and replace in this doc for "UNIX domain socket"? Different people have suggested different capitalization forms. I guess we should go with "UNIX Domain Socket" as that is what the [Envoy SDS doc](https://www.envoyproxy.io/docs/envoy/latest/configuration/security/secret) uses.

Don't forgot to fix the other line break issue I mentioned at the end of this sentence:

> SPIRE Agent can be configured to push federated bundles to Envoy through the Envoy SDS API, allowing Envoy to use [validation context](https://spiffe.io/docs/latest/microservices/envoy/#validation-context) to verify peer certificates and trust a workload from another trust domain.

After these two changes, I have no more suggestions.

Author: Okay, I will follow this pattern for the UDS.

There is another line break? Let me fix it, will check again as well.

      templates:
        spire: |
          spec:
            containers:
            - name: istio-proxy
              volumeMounts:
              - name: workload-socket
                mountPath: /run/secrets/workload-spiffe-uds
                readOnly: true
             volumes:
               - name: workload-socket
                 csi:
                   driver: "csi.spiffe.io"
  components:
    ingressGateways:
      - name: istio-ingressgateway
        enabled: true
        label:
          istio: ingressgateway
        k8s:
          overlays:
            - apiVersion: apps/v1
              kind: Deployment
              name: istio-ingressgateway
              patches:
                - path: spec.template.spec.volumes.[name:workload-socket]
                  value:
                    name: workload-socket
                    csi:
                      driver: "csi.spiffe.io"
                - path: spec.template.spec.containers.[name:istio-proxy].volumeMounts.[name:workload-socket]
                  value:
                    name: workload-socket
                    mountPath: "/run/secrets/workload-spiffe-uds"
                    readOnly: true
EOF
{{< /text >}}

> 3. Use [Automatic sidecar injection](https://istio.io/latest/docs/setup/additional-setup/sidecar-injection/#automatic-sidecar-injection)

Reviewer 4: I think that this paragraph talking only and specifically about automatic sidecar injection when referring to the injection of the `spire` template might confuse the reader, as there might be room for thinking that manual sidecar injection wouldn't work? IDK, might be being too picky on this one, but I think if we're not going to talk about both ways, we could just talk about it generically (not saying automatic or manual). My suggestion:

```
Use [sidecar injection](https://istio.io/latest/docs/setup/additional-setup/sidecar-injection) to inject the `istio-proxy`
container into the pods within your mesh. See [custom templates](https://istio.io/latest/docs/setup/additional-setup/sidecar-injection/#custom-templates-experimental) 
for information on how to apply the custom defined `spire` template into `istio-proxy`. This allows for the CSI driver to mount the UDS on the sidecars.
```

{{< text bash >}}
$ kubectl get pods -n istio-system
NAME                                    READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
istio-ingressgateway-5b45864fd4-lgrxs   0/1     Running   0          17s
istiod-989f54d9c-sg7sn                  1/1     Running   0          23s
{{< /text >}}

Data plane containers will only reach the `Ready` if a corresponding registration entry is created for them on the SPIRE Server. Then,
Envoy will be able to fetch cryptographic identities from SPIRE.
See [Register workloads](#register-workloads) to register entries for services in your mesh.

## Register workloads

This section describes the options available for registering workloads in SPIRE Server.

### Option 1: Automatic registration using the SPIRE workload registrar

By deploying [SPIRE Kubernetes Workload Registrar](https://github.com/spiffe/spire/tree/main/support/k8s/k8s-workload-registrar)
along with SPIRE Server, new entries are automatically registered for each new pod that is created.

See [Verifying that identities were created for workloads](#verifying-that-identities-were-created-for-workloads) 
to check issued identities.

### Option 2: Manual Registration

> SPIRE Server is able to verify a group of selector values to improve workload attestation security robustness.

Reviewer 2: What do you mean by SPIRE Server verifying a group of selector values ?

Author: I mean the selectors for the attestation

Reviewer 4: Yeah, maybe we could elaborate bit further here?

```suggestion
To improve workload security robustness, SPIRE is able to verify agaist a group of selector values based on different attestation parameters.  
```

1. To generate an entry for an Ingress Gateway with a set of selectors such as the
   pod name and pod UID:

{{< text bash >}}
$ INGRESS_POD=$(kubectl get pod -l istio=ingressgateway -n istio-system -o jsonpath="{.items[0].metadata.name}")
$ INGRESS_POD_UID=$(kubectl get pods -n istio-system $INGRESS_POD -o jsonpath='{.metadata.uid}')
{{< /text >}}

2. Get the spire-server pod:

{{< text bash >}}
$ SPIRE_SERVER_POD=$(kubectl get pod -l app=spire-server -n spire -o jsonpath="{.items[0].metadata.name}")
{{< /text >}}

> 3. Attest the SPIRE Agent running on the node:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Register an entry for the SPIRE Agent running on the node:

```

{{< text bash >}}
$ kubectl exec -n spire $SPIRE_SERVER_POD -- \
/opt/spire/bin/spire-server entry create \
-spiffeID spiffe://example.org/ns/spire/sa/spire-agent \
-selector k8s_psat:cluster:demo-cluster \
-selector k8s_psat:agent_ns:spire \
-selector k8s_psat:agent_sa:spire-agent \

> -node -socketPath /run/spire/sockets/server.sock

Reviewer: I'm being picky, but what do you think about indenting from the 2nd line in all commands for easier reading?

Author: That creates a problem when building the page using their framework :/

Reviewer: oh ok! :/
